everybody welcome to another episode of
impact books today we're reviewing the
mindful athlete the secrets to pure
performance by George Mumford this was a
surprising gem for me it wasn't
something that I was looking for us
actually seeking some more sage words
from my boy Phil Jackson now while I
don't consider myself much of a sports
fan when Phil speaks I listen so when I
saw that he had written the intro to
this book I actually discovered that
Michael Jordan credits Mumford with
transforming his on court leadership of
the Bulls and if you know that story
it's pretty compelling so Mumford also
famously worked with Kobe Bryant Andrew
Bynum and countless other NBA players to
help them turn their game around as well
now Kobe was quoted as saying George
Mumford helped me understand the art of
mindfulness to be neither distracted or
focused rigid or flexible passive or
aggressive I learned just to be now
those are some seriously like Buddhist
Tue words and Munford goes really deep
into that kind of stuff in the book but
he backs it up with neuroscience and
ultimately this book ended up being
really powerful now in the book Mumford
details the power that comes from
fine-tuning the mind as much as you
fine-tune the body which is something
ironically that most people don't do but
what really gives this book real weight
for me is that Mumford is a former drug
addict who used mindfulness techniques
as a way to find sobriety and deal with
the pains that he was struggling with in
his life that led him to drugs in the
first place and he actually credits
mindfulness was saving his life as such
he speaks of the techniques with the
urgency and reverence of the converted
and that really gives the book a lot of
energy that I enjoyed very very much all
right in the book he lays out exactly
how to develop mindfulness citing the
neuroscience behind the phenomenon he's
describing which really really is key
for me because it gives me the ability
to visualize how it's all working and
when I can visualize something then I
can really get control of it and Mumper
does an amazing job of that if you're
not familiar with the concept of
mindfulness think of it as a highly
cultivated meditative state that makes
it easier and easier to access flow even
in the highest pressure situations so
it's going to apply whether you're an
athlete or not if you're ever dealing
with high pressure stuff this book is
really gonna be useful all right
impactful takeaway number one you must
learn to unlearn all right whether
you're an athlete or anything else you
almost certainly have picked up bad
habits along the way I know I have and
will call a bad habit anything that
doesn't move you towards your goals but
before you can move forward you're
really gonna have to unlearn a lot of
these bad habits strategies and
techniques anything that's keeping you
from really achieving at the level that
you want and as Mumford makes clear a
big part of developing a championship
mindset is unlearning the negative and
limiting thought patterns he outlines
some pretty strong methods for
retraining the mind and strategies for
retraining the mind really are at the
heart of this book alright this is
really why I like the book as much as I
did if there's one thing I would say
that anyone who wants to achieve at a
high level is absolutely going to have
to get good at its identifying and
unlearning two behaviors that hold you
back this is especially true of limiting
beliefs which are a big part of what
cripples most people all right impactful
takeaway number two
mindfulness is learning to find the eye
of the storm
all right this struck me is a fantastic
way to think about the desired outcome
of mindfulness which I'm not sure a lot
of people really know what they're
trying to get out of it and especially
if you replace the word find with create
which is exactly how monkford actually
approaches the advice in the book even
though he doesn't often use that word
what you're trying to do is create the
eye in the storm as Mumford explains
there are times in life and certainly in
competition where chaos is swirling all
around you it's total madness it's
absolutely mayhem and what you have to
do is create space in the middle of all
that where your mind can work from a
place of undisturbed
calm you can't always control the world
around you I think we all know that's
true but you can control the state of
your mind and that is the universal
lesson that I think everyone can benefit
from and Mumford delivers the
goods with detailed strategies for
creating that space of calm where the
higher level centers of cognition in
your brain remain active but not too
active allowing people to slide in the
flow even in the midst of the swirling
madness that often ends up enveloping
all of us
all right impact will take away a number
3 get good at what Mumford calls
kinesthetic visualization all right it's
a fancy way of saying visualize the
things that you want to see happen as he
notes the brain cannot tell pay
attention this one the brain cannot tell
the difference between what is real and
what is imagined it is a fascinating
concept that I've heard a lot of other
people talk about and I think that much
of anxiety is born out of a failure to
understand this point this one is really
critical guys while he's not suggesting
that you won't be able to perceive the
difference between reality in a daydream
he's not saying that people are crazy or
schizophrenic but what he is saying is
that the brain will encode for and
rewire for experiences whether those
experiences are real or simply imagined
let that one sink in this is one of
those things that I'd come across a lot
but it never really stopped to think
about what it means and for instance
what I'm talking about is if you
repetitively worry about messing up and
you think about how embarrassed you
would be to publicly fail as something
new your anxiety is going to grow you're
literally going to wire for anxiety
because you're experiencing that failure
on some level every time you rehearse
that scenario in your head so if you're
obsessively worrying about things you
need to remember that your brain is
actually wiring to make those
connections stronger and stronger and
that's why the most important thing that
you can practice is envisioning things
going perfectly exactly according to
plan because on some level your brain
now is going to encode for that
experience as well it's going to encode
for things going the way that you want
them to go that's why you want to obsess
over perfect performance because it
Prime's you for confidence and
performing at your best all right it's
always brutal for me to boil down the
book into just three quotes this book is
no exception but here three that really
jumped out of me and I thought were
incredibly powerful number one
your performance starts with your mind
now I promise you truer words were never
spoken no matter how much you train your
body if you don't also train your mind
into championship shape you will never
achieve that the levels that you want to
achieve this is one of the reasons that
Tom Brady was drafted so late despite
becoming one of the greatest NFL
quarterbacks in the history of the game
and why so many number-one draft picks
go on to do absolutely nothing it is
easy to test for physical skills but it
is hard as hell to test for the mental
but ultimately I think that the mental
far more than the physical is going to
determine the success of anyone in any
endeavor all right impactful quote
number two we can either make ourselves
miserable or make ourselves strong the
amount of work is the same all right
that one comes from Carlos Castaneda and
I think that the reason it resonated
with mumford and is certainly the reason
that it resonates with me goes back to
Mumford's illustration of the concept of
kinetic visualization you get what you
focus on and no matter what you focus on
it takes the same amount of effort so
whether you decide to focus on things
going well or things went poorly it
takes the same amount of energy but the
end result is so dramatically different
you've got to be very intentional about
what you choose to focus on because it
is going to determine the quality of
your life and the very chances of
success all right impactful quote number
three without love and joy motivating
your efforts you're not practicing right
effort alright right effort is a concept
that Mumford comes back to over and over
in the book it's a concept that the
right effort is whatever effort is most
gracefully going to take you to your
desired outcome what struck me about
this concept is how true it is that when
you fill yourself with love and joy for
the game whatever game you're playing it
creates a mental suppleness and fluidity
that really does make accessing flow so
much easier and when you're in flow your
performance is going to be so much
better alright when you focus too much
on crushing your opponent and other dark
and heavy feelings
this literally reminds me of Star Wars
when you're focused on the bright the
light the positive your outcomes are
gonna be so different than if you're
focusing on crushing and defeating and
it's all aggression so finding that
mindfulness creating the eye in the
storm the calm assertion versus
emotional aggression that's when you're
gonna get the best outcome when people
are trying too hard when their focus too
much on winning that's when they choke
all right there are so many amazing
quotes and ideas in this book there's no
way that I could cover them all but if
you go to impact Theory comm right now
you'll be able to find more quotes from
the book that have lodged themselves
deep in my brain and I think you'll find
them useful all right this is always my
favorite part of the reviews how am I
going to use this in my life I can't
tell you guys how much mindfulness and
meditation have changed my life and they
have become a huge part of my daily
routine and there are some great
techniques and subtleties mentioned in
this book like kinesthetic visualization
and using the metaphor of creating the
eye of the storm that have already begun
to use in my life I really cannot
emphasize enough the importance of
having a mindfulness and/or meditative
practice in your life guys it is a
really big deal and if you're like me
you've been avoiding it but stop
avoiding it this is one of those things
so many people talk about they talk
about it because it actually works and
mumford goes into the sympathetic
nervous system the parasympathetic
nervous system and that's really what
this technique is all about it's
learning to control the gas and the
brake in your mind is a very big deal
and the mindful athlete really is an
amazingly good place to start if you
haven't already created a system for
yourself all right as always I want to
leave you with one more quote according
to George Mumford arguably one of the
greatest sports psychologists on the
planet quote success is 99% all right
for the rest of that quote you guys are
gonna have to read the book you know how
we do it here so go check it out I
highly recommend this book and if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe
we're doing this weekly and until next
time my friends be legendary
take care
you